# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

Assignment for the "Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project" from the Johns Hopkins University Coursera class. 

## Instructions

1. Execute the `run_analysis.R` R script by running the following command: `r -f run_analysis.R`.
1. By the end of execution, two files should have been generated in the workspace root folder:
  1. **tidy_data.csv**: the tidy data version of the source data set
  1. **tidy_data_mean.csv**: the summarized version of averaged standard deviations and averaged means of the metrics by group and activity.

## Files

The following section describes the project files and files generated by the cleaning R script.

#### CodeBook.md

The code book that explains the tidy data produced by this cleaning R script. 

#### run_analysis.R

The R script performing the cleaning process for the *Human Activity Recognition* data set. 

#### uci_har_dataset.zip

The source data set of the *Human Activity Recognition*, downloaded by the R script if not existing already in your workspace. 

#### tidy_data.csv

The cleaned up data from the source data set. It should respect rules as describes by the tidy data principles, as mentioned in the code book. 

#### tidy_data_mean.csv

A summarised version of the cleaned up data that contains averages of all metrics, grouped by subject and activity. 

## Dependencies

The R script requires the following script to be installed:

* dplyr
* data.table

If you don't have these, you can install them by executing the following commands in your R console:

```
install.packages("dplyr")
install.packages("data.table")
```

## Environment

The cleaning R script was executed within the following environment:

```
> version
               _                           
platform       x86_64-apple-darwin13.4.0   
arch           x86_64                      
os             darwin13.4.0                
system         x86_64, darwin13.4.0        
status                                     
major          3                           
minor          1.2                         
year           2014                        
month          10                          
day            31                          
svn rev        66913                       
language       R                           
version.string R version 3.1.2 (2014-10-31)
nickname       Pumpkin Helmet              
```

## Possible Issues

Functionality such as the **file download** might not properly work on Windows. If that is the case, modify the `method` attribute on the `file.download` function; it is currently set to *curl* which works fine on Mac OS X. 
